Author: Adapted recpe by Pam - For the Love of Cooking / Original by America's Test Kitchen
Recipe type: Breads and muffins
Serves: 1 loaf
Ingredients

    5 large very ripe bananas, peeled
    8 tbsp unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly
    2 large eggs, beaten until well combined
    ¾ cup packed brown sugar
    1 tsp vanilla extract
    1 ¾ cups flour
    1 tsp baking soda
    ½ tsp salt
    ½ tsp cinnamon
    ½ cup pecans, toasted and coarsely chopped (optional)
    1 tbsp turbinado sugar, sprinkled on top of batter before baking

Instructions

    Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Coat an 8 x 4 loaf pan with coconut oil cooking spray (or regular).
    Peel 5 bananas and place them in a microwave safe bowl; cover with plastic wrap then cut a few slits for air vents.
    Place into the microwave and cook for 4-5 minutes on high.
    Remove from the microwave and pour into a strainer that's placed over a bowl. Let the banana liquid drain into the bowl, stirring the bananas occasionally, for 15 minutes. You should have about ½ cup of liquid.
    Transfer the banana liquid into a small saucepan over medium high heat.
    Boil the liquid, stirring often, until reduced by half (about ¼ cup).
    Transfer the cooked/mashed bananas into a large mixing bowl.
    Pour the reduced banana liquid over the mashed/cooked banana, stir until fairly smooth.
    Whisk in the brown sugar, two eggs and the cooled melted butter and vanilla extract.
    Whisk together in a small bowl, the flour, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon until well combined.
    Gradually add the flour mixture to the banana mixture until just combined.
    Add the toasted pecans and combine.
    Pour into the prepared loaf pan.
    Sprinkle the top of the batter evenly with turbinado sugar.
    Place into the oven and bake for 50-60 minutes, or until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean.
    Remove from the oven and cool bread in pan on wire rack for 15 minutes, then remove loaf from pan and continue to cool on wire rack. Serve and enjoy.


